when I first saw a motherboard with the
cables on the back I loved it I mean the
approach obviously looks better but it's
also easier especially for novice
buildings which is something I'm always
going to support but between the patent
challenges not to mention the ego
challenges involved in bringing it to
the mass Market I just didn't see a path
forward yet here we are less than 2
years later and it's starting to gain
some momentum this video is going to
have a bit of a different vibe we showed
up in corsair's Booth where they showing
cases that support both of the competing
standards right now and instead of
talking about how they did it and why we
thought why don't we Show You by tearing
down and rebuilding one of their demo
PCS nearly from scratch I just need to
throw in a quick word from our sponsor
headphone juice is not something you
should be proud of these are your
typical headphones that accumulate heat
while you game e wikied cushions add a
cooling gel to their cushions to keep
your ears sweat free you can easily rep
place them on your headset check out
wikied cushions and the link below and
movie Magic I am now holding msi's z790
project stealth an Intel 14th gen
motherboard whose main claim to fame is
of course that nothing plugs into the
front everything plugs into the back
12volt CPU power 24 pin motherboard
power even front panel connectors like
USB and the power button are all on the
rear of the motherboard which all of
these Solutions have in
common except the gigabytes 24 pin comes
kind out the side like this which
highlights an important problem even if
we can all agree that this is
fundamentally a really good idea in an
industry where the major players still
can't all agree on a pin out for the
front power button I'm talking this has
been 20 years a problem there's still a
lot that can go wrong here take this m.2
SSD slot for example it's on the front
of the motherboard but Asus specifies an
optional cutout location for a rear
mounted SSD as well now right now
Corsair is only concerned about that for
smaller matx motherboards that lack
space on the front but here's the thing
Samsung just announced that their 990
Evo SSD is going to take a new approach
to pcie Lane allocation operating with
either four Gen 4 Lanes or just two gen
five lanes and this is really smart
because four gen five Lanes would have
been ludicrous overkill for a consumer
drive and if we can cut that lane count
in half we could actually double the
number of ssds that we can install on a
motherboard without resorting to PCI
switches or PCI mxes that complicate the
motherboard layout which adds cost so I
could easily see a future where we go
back to supporting eight drives or more
on a mainstream motherboard using single
pcie gen six Lane drives but figuring
out where to put them all it's going to
be a challenge do we wallpaper the front
of the board kind of like what we've
been doing today or do we create a
little you know SSD City all over the
back so it's still early days I mean
even the name isn't final MSI is calling
it project zero Asus is calling it BTF
the name that Corsair has adopted
gigabyte was actually the first to
commercialize this concept dubbing IT
project stealth but then their connector
layout is quite different from the
others and they haven't really publicly
committed to bringing it to Market
outside of that weird bundle that they
did with their own motherboard in case
that never made it to North America due
to patent issues we're going to talk
about that later oh and right Asus also
has BTF Advanced which we will also talk
about later it's clear then that the
only valid solution is for an
independent third party to make the call
fortunately it's CES and a wild Roman
appeared which is the best name for it I
didn't prep him that is such a difficult
question um I like the project zero or
project stealth really the BTF you know
it sounds like ATX btx something I
sounds like a really good band do you
know any like K-pop dance moves oh be
so perfect thank you so much I guess we
can kick that down the road for now
let's meet the 6500 X Corsair is one of
a short list of vendors that's
attempting to thread the needle here
working to support these n standards
standards while also balancing the fact
that they directly compete against the
companies who control them who also
compete directly against each other
because this isn't coming top down from
an industry Consortium or from someone
like Intel that means nailing the
spacing and the sizing of all of these
cutouts was a big challenge for them now
Asus and MSI mostly overlap on their
location for the main connectors CPU
your motherboard and all the front panel
IO it was mostly a matter of you know
expanding this one a few millimeters
that way and that one there in order to
accommodate the various keep out zones
that ended up turning the motherboard
tray into something more closely
resembling swiss cheese than a computer
and between my experience modifying a
case previously to fit one of these
boards and the pictures I saw gave me
some serious reservations about rigidity
but I mean realistically
this is something Corsair has ample
experience with they weren't the first
to punch one of these big holes for a
CPU Cooler back plate but they changed
the game back in the day with all the
cable management holes that they made in
the obsidian 800d and in person it's not
that bad they try to counter the effect
with these stamped ridges as well as
strategic folds that okay yeah it does
flex more than a solid piece of Steel
but once you put the board not to
mention the rest of the components in
here I think it's safe to say that this
is a non issue now one drawback of all
of this is if you want to install a
smaller matx motherboard in a larger ATX
case you're going to end up with some
gaping holes at the bottom it's going to
look like a flood motherboard which is
kind of the opposite of the point of all
this I told Corsair hey you could
probably solve that if you included a
little magnetic plastic cover for those
holes but their ears didn't really perk
up until David suggested that they make
it RGB and then tie it into the Corsair
link RGB wiring ecosystem uh we've
talked about that before by the way it's
not new for the show here but it's
legitimately really cool and we're using
it right now to install this radiator
and their new Daisy chainable RGB fans
which
are cheaper than their old Daisy
chainable fans which is good still
pretty pricey though on the subject of
nice to have features that enhance these
of use I mentioned that BTF is easier to
build but I should probably clarify that
the reality is an experienced Builder
can put a basic system together and
anywhere from 10 to 20 minutes and we're
not going to be improving on that much
if at all where we're going to get a
benefit is for the novice Builders you
know managing this 24 pin python no
problem if you forgot to plug in your
EPS connectors but you already installed
your cooler no problem front IO
connections after you put in a GPU no
problem so this isn't for the folks who
already have an LTT screwdriver LTT
store.com and can build a PC in their
sleep it's kind of like corsair's rmx
shift power supplies that have the
connectors on the side it's to cut down
on the frustration and the wasted time
not to mention the skinned Knuckles that
happen if you bung up your order of
operations and you you know forget to
plug in one of your modular cables
before you screw in your power supply
and you end up like digging around on
the bottom trying to get it in there I
think the the biggest one for me though
is you know forgetting a front panel
audio connector or something after you
put in the GPU that is such a pain in
the butt but here well it's a mild pain
in the butt if you've already got the
power supply in but it's totally doable
for me these bottom IO connectors are
the biggest one you know you get the GPU
in there and then you're struggling
trying to get these things plugged in it
does create some new problems like you
got a bulky connector like the USBC
front panel connector huh you're not
going to be able to have a case that's
as Slim as we used to have if you want
to maintain enough clearance for large
Tower air coolers on the other side but
I think it's a worthwhile price to pay
speaking of the GPU BTF kind of a
non-factor for now you're still going to
need to run your octopus of pcie cables
or your stiff 12vt high power connector
so oh that's a big strike actually
against msi's proposed zero cables name
one not zero the last time I check but
Asus actually has a proposed solution to
this with their BTF Advanced concept
they're showing both a motherboard and a
GPU that borrow Apple's kind of extended
pcie slots that we first saw on the Mac
Pro that can handle both data and
copious amounts of power through the
motherboard that concept has some unique
challenges even beyond what we've talked
about so far I mean they'd essentially
have to get Nvidia and AMD on on board
with a standard that would either
completely break backwards compatibility
for every existing system or add extra
cost for them to implement both a
connector up here and a connector down
on the board side which uh not going to
happen but even if it's just a Seuss and
it's just a handful of SKS Corsair is
here for it with this cutout being set
aside for the pcie power connectors that
will go into the back of the board and
Supply that longer slot as it is though
with the one cable you got your obvious
benefits to the consumer no real
downside for the manufacturer so why did
this take so
long well remember the patent thing I
mentioned before main gear a US system
integrator has been pushing for this
concept for over 10 years why well
everything we already talked about also
it looks better but also because they
patented this concept back in 2011 and
what can I say companies Al like getting
royalty money for their patents so if
you were wondering before hey why are
those diy8 boards that you guys checked
out China only there's your answer now
from my understanding MSI at least has
resolved this issue with main gear
meaning there's a solid chance that
we're going to see their boards in North
America which is very cool news as for
Corsair well they aren't building
motherboards and the patent doesn't
apply to products that accompany the
motherboards just the boards themselves
so given the alignment with their making
PC Building easier ethos they
immediately went well it's not our idea
and it's honestly not fully fleshed out
but we want to be there for the market
so while in a way this is kind of like
building a draft standard Wi-Fi router
and then just kind of hoping that the
industry standardizes around your best
guesses in the long term the benefit of
this jump in approach is that you get to
enjoy the advantages today however small
the ecosystem might be and in this case
pun intended corser isn't giving up
anything other than a little bit of
motherboard tray rigidity you will still
be able to use this case to upgrade your
build in the future using a conventional
motherboard if the board selection never
really grows beyond the couple that
exist today now there could be some
messiness in the future where you know
one Corsair BTF case and another one are
slightly different as the standards
evolve but they are hoping that they
have aired enough on the side of more
holes bigger holes that it's not going
to be a major issue speaking of this
case the 6500 X you guys just saw me
building it and it's got some cool
features outside of the whole BTF thing
ample fan support and I really like this
the exterior steel panels can be subbed
out for aluminum or wood and they've
also got another microatx BTF case the
2500x that now supports a 360 mm rad in
the top rather than just 280 Ms like the
older 280 Crystal and both of these are
launching February 27th with the only
thing left being to launch into this
Segway to our sponsor are your
headphones cushions H like a tiny steam
room stop steaming your ears like your
broccoli W cushions offer all sort out
cushion replacement for your headphones
and it's not just your regular cushions
with added dual layer cooling gel they
ensure you keep a cool head even your
team is feeding looking for a crack
wikied cushion give you a crack free
comfort the used topnotch materials like
breathable sport Fabric and memory form
with over 25,000 reviews and the 365
days to fall in love warranty don't
listen to me listen to your ears this
time check out wikied cushions and the
link below if you guys enjoyed this
video hey why don't you check out our
project zero video for our fresh
reactions to this concept back when it
was brand new